foreign there's a way that our body
process and our brain processes that
requires not thinking and yes I think
stimulation being in your body is one of
the things that helps that to happen
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
thank you
in view work we talk a lot about being
in our body there are practices and
exercises in the courses where we're
invited to feel into our sensory
experience and speak from our head our
heart or our gut accessing deeper wisdom
beyond our intellect now this can be
very confusing to people when they
approach this work for the first time as
it most certainly was for me today we're
going to explore what it means to
cultivate awareness of what's going on
in our body and how it can help us
access different kinds of knowing and
wonder in our lives so Joe what what
does it mean to be in your body and what
makes that so important for this work
yeah so let's take that one at a time
the first one is what does it mean to be
in your body so the simplest way
to feel that is to
put part of your attention into your
body it's just as simple as that
so if you talk sometimes you can talk
your attentions fully on the other
person sometimes when you talk
your attention is completely on what you
want to say
and sometimes when you talk you can just
put a percentage of your attention into
your body
and then it changes the dynamic of both
the listening and the talking so that's
the easiest way to explain what it means
to be in your body how does that work
what is it what does it do then to be
putting this attention in your body it
makes it far less likely to be able to
lose yourself in a situation
meaning that to not speak from your
truth to not identify where you are in
the conversation
to make it so that you're less likely to
be caught up in emotions
in a way that's
um
in which you lose yourself are caught up
in somebody else in a way you lose
yourself
so it just it increases your awareness
and your in of yourself and your own
system while you're in a conversation
interesting there's almost a sort of a
paradox there because I think the like
the the practice of feeling into your
body while you're having a business
conversation might actually one might
think that that would get you lost in
your emotions but actually being lost in
the emotion would be not recognizing
that it's there so perhaps having some
having some Awareness on our body in a
conversation can allow us to be alerted
to the fact that maybe we are feeling
fear or we're we're feeling triggered
correct that that's what it does is it
brings awareness to
your emotional or nervous system state
while you're having a conversation and
and what I would invite is the people
who are listening to this right now to
right now put a certain amount of your
attention into your own body as you
listen
so instead of hearing what I think it
does right because neurologically I
don't have any studies that explain this
or haven't found them yet
but you can just put a part of your
attention in your body when you listen
to me and you can feel the difference
the different quality of the listening
what what does it do it's it's what's
weird about it often when you have some
attention in your body especially when
you're beginning
you might not even be tracking so as
well as you normally are what I'm saying
but all the information is actually
sinking in
meaning you could tell me what it is
that I just said
but
it doesn't feel like you're you know
grappling with it the same way and and
that's the other thing that being in
your body does is it actually allows for
a flow state to happen much quicker
hey it's why you see in acting or in
sports or in
music that people will often do some
exercise that puts them in their body
that reminds them that their body is
there and how it feels because it helps
induce a flow State quicker
yeah it reminds me of a uh and like an
improv intro class that I I was at
recently
basically every one of the exercises
actually involved a lot of movement it
was a fully embodied thing it wasn't
just like come up with a line right now
on the spot but a lot of the actual
improv involved like turning and
clapping in synchrony so that your body
had to do something at a certain time so
that you were just kind of forced to do
something from your intuition yeah
that's right and it's interesting
because the artists have really figured
this out you know they know it to be
very creative this is a requirement is
to be in your body
so people who are doing art especially
any kind of theater
or any kind of
collaboration of jazz or something like
that they really understand what this
means like you don't have to explain it
to them because they have the felt
experience of it
yet teams and businesses often don't
utilize this tool at all
you know they'll sit for a meeting for
two or three hours straight
as if that's the best way to be creative
or solve problems yeah yeah I'm kind of
thinking of an opposite situation of
being in your body like if you're if
you're in an interview and you're
feeling really tight and constricted and
like your body's kind of not wanting to
be there and can't wait to get out of
the hot seat out of the spotlight then
that's sort of the opposite of being in
your body and the things that you say
and the creativity that you have in
those moments is very different from
feeling in your body yeah that's exactly
how it works right so if you're
uncomfortable
and you put the attention in your body
you immediately become more comfortable
and if you try to get out of it which is
kind of a a general principle that I
carry with me everywhere which is
embrace the intensity
so it's like
if I'm having a business problem I don't
want to look at it I look at it if I'm
having an emotion I don't want to be
with I be with it if I'm having a
conversation that you know I'm avoiding
I go have the conversation yeah if
there's discomfort there feel the
discomfort that's right yeah and it
immediately creates more presence more
creativity
and and how do we do that in our body
and that's what when so when I'm saying
hey
you know speak from your body that's
what I'm speaking to or speak from the
silence I'll say something like that too
and I'll and I'll speak it's just such a
hard thing to put into words but it's
you literally get in touch with the
silence right now you can get in touch
with the silence in yourself
there is my voice and and that's taking
a certain amount of frequency but
there's a whole bunch of frequency
that's silent
so if you pay attention to that silence
or if you pay attention to the science
between what I'm saying yeah as I'm as
I'm doing that I'm having this kind of
an interesting experience where I'm
going into feeling in my body to think
or to to think see that's interesting uh
pattern there
um but to feel into what I might say
next and I expect there to be silence
because it's like the patterning is my
body's not a part of this conversation
it's just sitting in a chair and I'm
talking I'm a part of this conversation
my brain is a part of this conversation
so as I feel into the body there's like
inexpect expectation of Silence but what
I actually feel is that there is
something going on in there there's a
little bit of agitation like oh say
something we're recording make sure it's
good you know and like that's that's
present all the time but for me to feel
in and like be with that gives me more
access to
uh what it is that I actually want to
say right exactly and so when you're
just with the thing and then you let it
speak whether that's your body or
silence or
maybe it'll be like your head or your
heart whatever
it's literally just being with that
aspect of yourself and seeing what it
wants to say and so uh default for most
Americans anyways is that
we're coming from our head and we're
we're saying what it wants to say
but like right now if you do this like
very easy experiment and you say what
does my head want to say
when you listen to your your brain
and you say what does my heart want to
say and you listen to your heart
what does my body want to say and you
listen to your whole body
they're different experiences right they
have a different quality to them and so
they will want to say different things
and the way I conceive of this is that
it's very much like you know they talk
about the eight intelligences or some
people have more some people have less
but there we have different kinds of
intelligence
and
each of these intelligences you know
some of them speak naturally and some of
them don't and learning how to listen to
them and learning how to speak their
voice
is really an important part of
being able to master all the ways of
knowing yeah we did this in one of your
courses where we did an exercise in our
group where we spoke from our head and
then from our heart and then from our
gut and it was just a basic introduction
of ourselves
and like my first impression of this was
like okay this is kind of weird how am I
going to repeat my introduction and
speak from a different part of my body
that doesn't make you know that doesn't
make any intuitive sense to me but as we
went around the circle and did it
we found that like the first in the the
head introduction was just a lot of
facts and data about Who We Are
um and then speaking from the heart
simply from that instruction speak from
the heart uh it resulted in a lot more
about who we are as people as an
introduction and then speaking from the
gut it really just resulted in a lot
more about how we actually feel right
now
like are we nervous are we scared are we
hungry and each of those different
levels being present in a conversation
is a lot more information and somebody
could be listening to the facts and data
about what you think you want in a
conversation uh but they're just not
necessarily going to feel you as much as
if they really understand what you're
if they're really hearing what your
needs are
as a person right yeah and not only can
you speak from them you can listen from
them so as I'm talking right now the
person who's listening to this podcast
can
listen from their head
you know
see what I'm saying try to understand it
decide whether you think it's a good
idea or a bad idea that I'm speaking
about or you can listen from your heart
and what what is that experience if
you're listening from your heart it has
a different quality to it
there's less of a yes or no to it
there's less of a binary nature to it it
doesn't mean that you believe everything
that I'm saying but it doesn't mean you
don't either it's like
the idea of judging something to be
right or wrong is far less important to
the heart
and when you're listening from that
place
or you can listen from your gut
and some people just naturally listen
from one of these places most people in
America their head but there are some
people who are very much operating from
their gut all the time
and it can be incredibly successful I
mean I know very successful business
people who operate from their gut all
the time and I know very successful
business people who operate from their
head all the time and it's awesome
because oftentimes in this whole world
there's like a
better to act from your gut better to
act from your head better to act from
your heart you know people have all
these judgments
and they're all part of the same system
right essentially they're the same thing
but it's it's useful to make distinction
so that we can learn them so that we can
incorporate and integrate
so we can see them all as one thing
right and we do have a lot of this
encoded into our culture we say like
listen to your heart and you know go
with your gut or what my gut instinct
says or I have a gut feeling about this
so we do have like some of this encoded
in our in our American culture but a lot
of it just seems to have been Have
Become counter-intuitive for many of us
where we are more focused on the head
and more focused on the logicy answer
and explanation what makes that the case
what what makes it that we like a
population of us a culture can
largely feel less
tightly associated with our heart or our
gut or other ways of knowing than than
our intellect
my body says that's a really heady
question like what what does it matter
if we know how it got here
as soon as we open up that door then
there's going to be like an intellectual
Discovery maybe a debate not that that's
bad in any way but what does it get us
as opposed to the experience of being
able to experience each of these states
and seeing what it does when it's useful
how we can use it so that it makes our
life more effective
so so just to say that's like the body
response to it and now
intellectually to answer your question
um how does it how does this happen
what I notice is that
cultures that have really dismissed
emotional and intelligence that really
rely heavily on the intellect right that
the idea is that these emotions have
caused me pain and therefore they need
to be managed and that's kind of where
people fall into the intellect which is
like brilliant and has like so many
benefits and
yeah as like I love debating
like I think it's like such a wonderful
thing and to sharpen your mind and to
see things clearly intellectually is
really amazing
um and it can also often teach you stuff
about your emotional experience or your
or your body experience
and
it has a tendency to cut off those other
forms of knowing those other
intelligences
as do of the others too you see people
who are like very much operating from
the gut and they have a bias against
those operating from their intellect
and you see this in relationships all
the time you know somebody who's more
emotionally LED and somebody who's more
intellectually LED
or at least they think they are they
think they're more intellectually LED
and you get to like see them have
problems and not understand each other I
see this in relationships all the time
what are some of the problems that can
occur in an imbalance in the other
direction if somebody's
entirely moving from their gut and maybe
paying less attention to the heart and
even less attention or placing less
attention in in their intellect or
disowning it what you often see is that
they're far more they have a far more
um greater propensity to believe their
stories
people who are
more intellectually driven especially as
if they've really cultivated that
the world becomes more relative in a way
not relative like moral relativity but
relative like
oh I see the truth in this I can see the
truth in this I I can believe this
thought that I'm having but I can also
see the faults and the thought
and so that creates a tremendous amount
of freedom and if you're not cultivating
that kind of intellectual
peacefulness really is what it would
amounts to then your gut can take you
into stories and you can believe them
and then they can they can drive you
it's kind of the same exact way that you
see it with head people right so people
who are more propensity for head they
have emotions
but they don't think they do they're
driving them but they can't recognize it
right they'll have an intellectual
debate you'll see them get angry
but they don't think that there's any
kind of intellect emotional thing that's
creating that
they don't see the the cause and effect
on the emotionality and it's the same
thing like somebody who's like very
driven from the gut they won't see how
this their stories are affecting them
and controlling them
um in ways that are unconscious or
yeah so maybe maybe they walk into a
room and they start to feel anger and so
they just believe that the anger means
that they've been wronged that's exactly
right and yeah okay I can see and then
they have a story about how they were
wrong but they don't question it and and
if you question it in front of them they
get more upset right so yeah exactly
it's really about finding and
understanding learning all the
intelligences it's not about one's
better than the other which is
a natural step on the path of learning
you know I see people really
intellectual and all of a sudden they
understand like holy crap my body has
all this
wisdom and they start using the body
wisdom and then the body becomes the
irrevocable truth and direct connection
to God and intelligence and wisdom which
is not true either
the body can get confused as well or the
heart does and the Heart can get
confused as well so it's it's really
about being able to listen to all three
of them that gives you a lot more
clarity yeah one of one of my favorite
things that you've ever said to me when
I had a a question around this topic was
the body lies just as much as the mind
yeah and that's that's really
fascinating to me because these
different ways of understanding and
knowing in the world are all of them are
being fed by
imperfect data from the world around us
that is biased based on our own
experience
and there is no there's no gut knowing
in us that has experienced the totality
of human experience and knows everything
but each of these different ways has its
own is optimized for different things
and if we fluidly
recognize and work with all of them then
we are
best able to navigate a changing world
when I said to you it's a lie I'm not
saying that's not true but I think that
might be a little bit confusing for
people who are listening so
I I like to describe it like um
if I take a picture of you
and then I walk two feet to the right
and take another picture of you
both of those pictures are true
they're they're actually moments in time
that are there but they're both lies
because
they're going to capture different
things like they're not going to be the
entirety of the truth right and so
it's the same thing it's like there's
moments where our thoughts are capturing
a small percentage of the truth or a
large percentage of the truth but it's
never capturing all the truth and it's
the same with the body
and this is the really uncomfortable
piece is that
you know we are limited to our the
capacity of our senses and our mind
there are things that we will never be
able to understand because of that
because our minds and our senses are
limited and we cannot understand for
instance
there's some like little itty-bitty or
shrimp thing but it's not a shrimp I
think it's called the mantis shrimp but
it's not actually a shrimp or something
and it see it has like 12 color spectrum
instead of the three red green and blue
strip Spectrum like it sees things that
we can never possibly ever imagine right
and so we're we're never gonna have an
understanding like that the mantis
shrimp or a dog for that matter right we
have and we they will never understand
things that we can understand
and I think that's what makes people
really uncomfortable is the the truth of
the fact that we don't know we can't
know
it doesn't mean that we don't know
what's right for us right now
it doesn't make life purposeless it's
just um the humility of the fact that
there is always going to be a mystery
right
and that that notion of operating on
like our limited senses is interesting
and another branching off point for this
discussion because something that I and
many other people have experienced doing
this work is that over over time like
I've noticed that my sensory experience
has actually become richer I'm able to
feel more subtle tactile sensation and
particularly socially if I'm with people
and I'm
placing Awareness on my body I will be
able to notice something going on in
them like our social nervous systems
have some kind of communication that I
wouldn't be picking up if I just
parsed the words they said
and so there actually is like
cultivating this like heart and this gut
and this this connection to the body
simply by placing Awareness on the body
I've been finding has been increasing my
sensory awareness of actual relevant
communication with other people
and my environment what do you make of
that so I when I was in my 20s I made an
album I guess a CD some
digital music uh thing and at the
beginning of that the way I listened to
music was so different than at the end
of that experience
when you dig into a baseline for three
hours
you will never listen to the a bass line
the same way again right so a studio
engineer listens to music in a way that
I will never listen to music and
you because of your base jumping
experience like feel wind in a way that
I can never feel wind
and unless I put a lot of attention and
time into it or you know it's the same
thing like with people who live in ice
they all the time they have like 70
words for ice and we have whatever it is
three or four right so there's a
sensitivity that comes whenever you
start putting your attention into
something and it can seem like magic to
people you know when people see me do my
one-on-one work oftentimes I think it's
magic
and all it is is just years and years
and years of cultivating the awareness
in myself and and then extrapolating and
seeing those patterns in other people
and so yeah things happen on the you
know the field of vision will change or
the
way we feel things will change the
tactile nature of it
um and and oftentimes it becomes more
enjoyable and a little more overwhelming
like in waves it's like oh that's a
little over okay now it's enjoyable
over time uh but then it can go deeper
into that too it can go into
really feeling like being in touch with
say your mirror neurons or your social
nervous system and start being in touch
with other people and it can look like
magic the same way
it looks like magic when you know the
group of indigenous people go up into
the hills before the tidal wave like
they know it's coming because they have
a they've adapted to listening to nature
for every day
decades and decades and decades whereas
like we take a walk in the woods right
or that's an experienced firefighter
that suddenly just has this intuition
that everybody needs to get out before
the floor collapses correct yeah there's
a lot of research on this and a blink by
Malcolm Gladwell is a it talks a lot
about pattern recognition and intuition
and how that happens in the brain
um and then the Neuroscience is getting
more and more developed on it yeah I
mean ultimately whatever whatever there
is to say about the Neuroscience just
the way the way the nervous system works
is that whatever patterns you are paying
attention to and tuned to are going to
be the ones that become
processed in more fine detail that's
right and so as we learn to listen to
our bodies as we learn to listen to
our hearts like it's amazing like if I'm
coaching a CEO who was an athlete I'll
use the body metaphor all the time
because they get it and if I'm talking
to a CEO who's had like a like a really
healthy Christian background I'll speak
to the heart a lot because they really
get it it's like that's been cultivated
for years and years and years
and
the trick is to really cultivate all of
them in in a way that's that they can
start integrating and see that they're
really the same thing yeah that was that
was an important part of my journey in
this work for for myself I had come from
like a strong athletic background where
I had been
you know working with flow in my body
for years but socially and in business I
still had this like constriction where I
would frequently just get up into my
head and then try to like create an
intellectual uh path forward through
everything and it wasn't until starting
to see how I had already been doing this
intuitive stuff with my body
and like just taking those examples from
my from my life like yeah if you're
flying a wingsuit down a mountain you
don't have time to calculate wind speeds
and trajectories you just have to feel
it you can do all that stuff in advance
to give yourself a
a good map of you know plans and
contingencies but in the moment you
don't have time for that you just have
to do it in your body and the body will
generally if you're cultivating that
bodily awareness
the body will generate better Solutions
and it it was really interesting for me
to realize that I had just left that
knowing in one realm where it served me
very well
and then completely neglected it in much
of the rest of my life until
encountering this work yeah what's
interesting is that when people
oftentimes people in understand it and
then they'll say okay I'm just going to
use that body intelligence for when
the chips are down when I have to act
fast right when I can't calculate and I
think there's some intelligence to that
I mean obviously that's the best time to
use that kind of intelligence but
there's a space for that same body
intelligence even when you have lots of
time even when you can calculate all the
data
you see this happen all the time where
like people can spend months calculating
all the data to make a decision
and if they get in connection with the
rest of their being not just the
intellect that decision can be made far
better
and more effective you can see that all
the time so it's it's most acute when
you're doing something like playing jazz
or skydiving or
in a clutch shooting a three-pointer uh
but it can it is a useful thing to be in
every conversation and and I'll say to
the people who are listening again how
are you doing being in your body
listening like are you still have some
of your attention in your body and what
happens like just notice a difference
between how you hear me when you have it
some of your attention in your body
and when you don't yeah it's a way out
of analysis paralysis like the episode
that we did in the art of accomplishment
on feel over figure
like in in a business context there can
be many decisions where if you just keep
researching for more facts and data to
make your decision depending on where
you look you'll keep finding more
evidence for or more evidence against or
more evidence that you don't know what
you're doing so that you determine you
need more evidence and you could do that
at infinitum and then just be stuck in
that logic or at some point if it's
optimal to just make a decision even if
it might be wrong and then calibrate
your your gut then it can be helpful
just to say okay with all the data that
I have right now
let me just process that into my body
and see what comes up and then go with
that and then pay close attention to the
result
and repeat yeah and there's also like
the emotional side of that too which is
like oh what's making you need to have
the decision be right
what happens if you get it all wrong
what happens if you fail and to grieve
all that before you make a decision can
clarify your decision to know him right
so there's a sale I'll feel all those
bodily Sensations associated with
failure right exactly right so go field
those in advance and then you'll make a
clear decision I mean that's the thing
is that
you know we know through Neuroscience
that
as much as you can know that the we make
decisions emotionally like if you take
the emotional Center out of a person's
brain I think we've discussed this
before
people make decisions cease to make
decisions they it takes them half an
hour to decide what color pen to use or
four hours to decide where to have lunch
simple decisions can't be made
we're using our intellect to try to
figure out how to get into the emotional
state we want to get into
that's what the intellect is you know
I'm I'm trying to figure out the right
way to win okay well what makes you want
to win
because then I'll be safe what makes you
want to be safe these it just it becomes
obvious that it's an emotional decision
very quickly the emotion sets the
priority and then the intellect goes
towards figuring out how to achieve that
priority and feeling feeling into the
emotion and feeling into the bodily
sensation pattern of that emotion and
even beneath that emotion
allows us to have more access to
that context from which our intellect
can serve us it's a simple thing of just
having access to all of it and
incorporating all of it
it also just makes you happier
it's just it makes you much happier to
not be in the intellect or in the heart
or in the gut all the time yeah well we
have talked about this on on a previous
episode so maybe we can give this a
Different Twist now how can we in an
organization cultivate practices for
example in meetings
that cultivate people paying attention
to their bodies and these different
forms of intelligence within a within a
work context how can you create that in
a in a culture and make space for that
in a way that feels welcoming and not
you know esoteric and confusing yeah
there's a couple ways to do that are
really simple that they will feel odd if
you're say like a
you know a traditional company but
you can make sure that there's time to
get up and stretch or move in the
meetings that it's okay for someone to
stand up in a meeting and just like
shake or
stretch a little bit or take some deep
breaths
there's a company that I know that they
have like a
a signal I think it's like a a bell or
something in all of their meeting rooms
and when that
um Bell gets hit there's just like a
moment of silence for everybody to just
check in with their bodies
to just be present I think that's what
they call they don't say be in your body
but I think the way they use it is like
just get in touch with what's happening
right here and now yeah it seems like a
good pattern to interrupt for when when
people start going down an intellectual
debate rabbit hole that might be off
topic or things get heated and
it might be a good opportunity for
people to check in and see how they're
actually feeling so they're not just
responding from a pattern yeah yeah I
sat on a board where we would do
meditation at the beginning of all the
board meetings that was like five
minutes of meditation that was one that
was
an interesting way to incorporate a
different way
um
I find gratitude practices are another
way to not only get into the body it's
interesting how when you're really
grateful you have a deeper experience of
your own
your own body but also it helps you see
a way of solving problems that's
different like when you're grateful you
can see what's right and how to build it
rather than in most meetings you're
looking at what's wrong and how do I fix
it
which are two different ways to solve
problems so those are some really basic
ways inside of and whether it's a
company or a church or a community of
whatever activists you know there's ways
to cultivate that kind of stuff
I I had a friend who was a programmer
and the way he would do it he was you
know mostly at home
45 minutes in an hour heat set in
program and 15 minutes he would be in
his body and then 45 minutes he'd
program and you know being a programmer
he uh every day
measured his practices and measured his
results like how good a programming he
did and how effective it was and so he
had done you know years of experiments
to get to this and he found that like
six hours of programming a day 45
minutes on 15 minutes off consistently
five days a week is what got the most
code out of him the most good quote code
out of him wow I love that it did so
much uh you know got a collection on
this huge huge amount and I know writers
here the same way that novelists who
have realized like three hours a day
first thing in the morning that's how I
get the most good Pages out yeah this
reminds me of um like strategies like
the Pomodoro Technique which you know
you do some amount of time on and then
some some amount of time off and it's
sort of the assumption that I come had
come to that with was that the benefit
was from taking a break the benefit was
from like focusing for a while and then
just relaxing but this is a kind of a
Different Twist on it that you know
perhaps what are you actually doing in
that period when you're relaxing you're
probably getting up from your chair
wandering around making yourself a drink
or something and you know a lot of times
like thoughts come to us in the shower
which is a moment where we are having a
lot of sensory uh information coming in
from our body and like pulling us out of
our minds like maybe I wonder how
correlated that is just having
having a lot of sensation
bringing us out of the small world of
our like the detailed world of our logic
and intellect and into
into a more complex intuition jumping in
the ocean being one of those things yeah
yeah so there's some you know very
famous scientists who talk about how
they solve problems and
you know when you're a scientists you
think about how to solve problems as
much as you think about hopefully as
much as you think about the problem that
you're trying to solve
and one of them who won a Nobel Prize I
can't remember his name but he would say
I'd think about the problem I would get
into it I'd like and if I couldn't solve
it I would
tell myself it's no longer okay for you
to think about this problem until the
solution presents itself in whole
so anytime his brain would go to think
about the problem he's like nope nope
not thinking about the problem not
thinking about the problem until the
entire solution was like and fell out
and I think it's the same thing which is
there's a way that our body process and
our brain processes that requires not
thinking
and yes I think stimulation being in
your body is one of the things that
helps that to happen a break is one of
the things that helped that to happen
I've come to think of like emotions and
physical sensation as sort of a like a
doorway to the subconscious like if you
if you have a problem and it's a Salient
enough problem for you
your subconscious is going to be
processing it whether or not you are
actively doing so it's just that when
you are when you're using your intellect
you're taking this problem space and
then collapsing it down to a particular
logical structure that fits in you know
the four things you can hold in working
memory at a time like these four chunks
there's there's some research behind
that and sometimes that's just not
enough complexity to be able to solve a
problem and just letting it go
and remain background processing the
subconscious I feel like that's very
tightly related to what we've been
talking about with
um with the body's wisdom and the body's
knowledge the reason I call it the
body's knowledge or the heart or the
head or the is because they're just good
pointers
right I mean
I don't think our intellect just
operates in our brain and I don't think
our love just operates in our heart and
I don't think that our
emotions just operate in the gut
you know it's like they're just they're
just the good pointers and and so I
think it's just really important to see
see it all as one
um at one level just see that it's all
just our intelligence it's the whole
system
and all of them are are really useful
and good pointers yeah ultimately it's
our whole system that is making
decisions it's our whole system that is
taking in information and processing it
and the more we feel into and acquaint
ourselves and connect to our entire
system
the more of our capacity we have access
to to navigate the world seems to be it
seems to be the case yeah well that's
that's my intellectual sort of wrap up
of of this conversation yeah that's what
I was thinking I was thinking that was
an intellectual wrap-up but what would
uh what would a non-intellectual wrap-up
be hmm But what's a body wrap up
don't forget me I'm important
you know the body is either like
worshiped in some way or it's like
set aside right it's like this burden
thing that I have to carry along that's
one day going to kill me
something that I have to like take care
of it's like a chore the body becomes a
chore
or the body becomes like
the entire way to feel good
you know you can see that happening with
people as well yeah feeling into myself
to to like close the episode from my
body I'm feeling just more open in the
Wonder in the question
and
like the desire is to
invite myself and all of our listeners
to
stay with this
whatever feeling in the body this
episode has brought up
to stay with it and be in the Wonder and
see what happens and how about from the
heart what would the heart how would the
heart want to close this episode
first thing that comes up is gratitude
gratitude to be able to have these
conversations and to be able to share
them and
gratitude for
for feedback
there's a there's a deep wanting to
to feel how how this conversation or the
conversation lands in people right yeah
so it's like a desire for connection and
and gratitude it's not even a desire for
as much as an acknowledgment of yeah
that's an acknowledgment of and that
that definitely puts me in a different
place it's definitely a more open place
where
you know if I were to walk away from
this conversation straight to one of our
listeners I feel like I'd be a lot more
curious about their experience
than immediately after my intellectual
wrap-up which would have been like you
know what do you think was it right was
it wrong
yeah I remember hearing that from like
Oprah Winfrey and she said like it
doesn't matter who
who it was Presidents or
the the number one thing that people if
I think she might even said everybody
does is look over and says was I good
yeah did that work or you know like so
looking to see if it had if it had
worked out yes no based on a certain
criteria yeah and what I noticed is that
like if we're ending on in our heart
that question doesn't arise yeah
the question arises like what's
happening for you arises yeah it's an
interesting
and so how about if they're all together
what if it's like
the gut the emotional aspect there had
in the heart body are all in it
yeah from everything it's just thank you
everybody for listening
thank you Joe for this conversation I am
really looking forward to hearing
hearing how this episode landed in
people so
reach out and speak to us from your from
your heart and from your gut and from
your head thanks for listening to the
art of accomplishment if you enjoyed
what you heard today please subscribe
and rate US on your podcast app we'd
love your feedback so feel free to send
us questions or comments you can reach
out to us join our newsletter or check
out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
foreign